# Dealing-with-Cyclic-Dependencies
This repository contains technical information and practical implementations of the algorithms utilized in the research described in the paper "An Iterative Approach for Dealing with Cyclic Dependencies in Microservices Architectures".

# Abstract

Microservices is an architectural style for building applications as small, loosely coupled, and independent services. To maintain microservices quality, it is important to deal with anti-patterns such as cyclic dependencies. One approach to detect the presence of cyclic dependencies in microservices is to utilize graph theory and the Strongly Connected Components algorithm. However, resolving these dependencies requires further insight, including determining the shape that indicates the difficulty of resolving the detected cycles, and identifying the tiny cyclic dependencies as they are easier to understand and resolve. This paper presents an iterative approach for detecting and resolving cyclic dependencies anti-pattern in microservices. After using Graph theory and the Strongly Connected Components algorithm for the detection, two proposed algorithms are introduced to determine the shape and identify the tiny cycles in the architecture. The approach has been implemented on two microservices projects, demonstrating its effectiveness in managing this anti-pattern. This work contributes to ensuring microservices quality by providing an approach to deal with this anti-pattern, thereby ensuring the creation of more loosely coupled architectures, which in turn lead to more agile and scalable software solutions.
